#summary Command line usage of handlers

The handlers can be used from command line too. That means you can take any `multiproperties` file as input, then convert one or all of it's columns to the desired output by choosing any of your available handler.

= Preparation =
First of all you need to collect the _base_ plugin `jar` file of the MultiProperties feature together with the desired handler plugin `jar` file. Hereinafter the examples below will use the *Java Properties* handler, so finally you need to collect the following `jar` files from your Eclipse installation's `plugin` folder.
 * `hu.skzs.multiproperties.base_X.Y.Z.jar`
 * `hu.skzs.multiproperties.handler.java_X.Y.Z.jar`
Please note that the `X`, `Y` and `Z` means the major, minor and bugfix version numbers.  In the following the `1.2.0` version is used.

If your handler requires some additional `jar` files on the classpath, you need to take care of them too.

= Printing the usage =
Enter the following command to print out the usage.
 <pre>java -classpath hu.skzs.multiproperties.base_1.2.0.jar;hu.skzs.multiproperties.handler.java_1.2.0.jar hu.skzs.multiproperties.base.HandlerExecutor</pre>
It will produce the following output.
<pre>
MultiProperties Handler Executor
Usage:
  for transforming only one column:
    <-file MultiPropertiesFilePath> <-columnName ColumnName> [-columnConfig ColumnConfig] <-handlerClass HandlerClass>
  for transforming all columns:
    <-file MultiPropertiesFilePath> <-columnConfigPattern ColumnConfigPattern> <-handlerClass HandlerClass>
  help
    -help
Where:
    file                : Path to the MultiProperties file.
    columnName          : Name of the column to be used by the handler.
    columnConfig        : The handler specific configuration to be used.
                          When neither of this and 'columnConfigPattern' is set,
                          then the stored value by MultiProperties file is used.
                          Cannot be used together with 'columnConfigPattern'.
    columnConfigPattern : The handler specific configuration pattern to be used.
                          When used, all of the columns will be transformed. It's value can
                          contain ${columnName} marker which will be replaced to the current column.
                          Cannot be used together with 'columnConfig'.
    handlerClass        : Fully qualified class name of the handler.
    help                : Prints this help out.
Example:
    -file c:\file.multiproperties -columnName EN -columnConfig c:\EN.properties|true|true|true -handlerClass hu.skzs.multiproperties.handler.java.JavaHandle
r
or
    -file c:\file.multiproperties -columnConfigPattern c:\${columnName}.properties|true|true|true -handlerClass hu.skzs.multiproperties.handler.java.JavaHan
dler
</pre>

= Converting a column =
Enter the following command to convert for example the `file.multiproperties` file's *EN* called column into `EN.properties` file with the *Java Properties* handler.
 <pre>java -classpath hu.skzs.multiproperties.base_1.2.0.jar;hu.skzs.multiproperties.handler.java_1.2.0.jar hu.skzs.multiproperties.base.HandlerExecutor -file file.multiproperties -columnName EN -columnConfig "EN.properties|true|true|true|false" -handlerClass hu.skzs.multiproperties.handler.java.JavaHandler</pre>
It will produce the desired `EN.properties` file. Please see the [PropertiesHandler#Configuration_format Java Properties configuration] format to understand the boolean values in the end of the column configuration.

= Converting all of the columns =
^Since 1.2.0^
Enter the following command to convert for example the `file.multiproperties` file's each column into different properties files with the *Java Properties* handler.
 <pre>java -classpath hu.skzs.multiproperties.base_1.2.0.jar;hu.skzs.multiproperties.handler.java_1.2.0.jar hu.skzs.multiproperties.base.HandlerExecutor -file file.multiproperties -columnConfigPattern "messages_${columnName}.properties|true|true|true|false" -handlerClass hu.skzs.multiproperties.handler.java.JavaHandler</pre>
If the input `file.multiproperties` contained two columns with `EN` and `HU` names, then two properties file will be generated with `messages_EN.properties` and `messages_HU.properties` names. Please see the [PropertiesHandler#Configuration_format Java Properties configuration] format to understand the boolean values in the end of the column configuration.

= Using line break =
^Since 1.2.0^
The MultiProperties command line interpreter automatically replaces the `\n` character sequence to a line break. If you would like to disable this feature, then set the `disableLineBreak=true` VM argument. Example:
 <pre>java -DdisableLineBreak=true -classpath hu.skzs.multiproperties.base_1.2.0.jar; ...</pre>

= Additional examples =
== Using Text File Handler ==
If you would like to use the *Text File* handler instead of *Java Properties* handler, then at first you need to put its `jar` file on the classpath which is the `hu.skzs.multiproperties.handler.text_X.Y.Z.jar`. Furthermore you always need to use handler specific configuration.

Because the *Text File* handler is an advanced version of [ImplementingNewHandlerTutorial How to implement new handler] tutorial, if you would like to produce such SQL files which are described in the [ImplementingNewHandlerConfiguratorClass How to implement new handler configurator class] part of the tutorial, then you need to use the following command.

<pre>java -classpath hu.skzs.multiproperties.base_1.2.0.jar;hu.skzs.multiproperties.handler.text_1.2.0.jar hu.skzs.multiproperties.base.HandlerExecutor -file file.multiproperties -columnConfigPattern "${columnName}.sql/#/UTF-8/#/${description}\n/#/${key} - ${value}\n/#/${value}\n/#/\n/#//#/ETX" -handlerClass hu.skzs.multiproperties.handler.text.TextHandler</pre>

Please note that the exact format of the *Text File* handler configuration and the used format by [ImplementingNewHandlerTutorial How to implement new handler] tutorial is slightly different. The tutorial does support the output file encoding. For proper description please see the [TextFileHandler#Configuration_format Text File configuration] format to understand it.

= Ant/Maven build process =
While the MultiProperties does not support directly the And and Maven build processes, until both of them give the possibility to call any Java application as a build step. This chapter is finally just a hint instead of a detailed description.